CPLAT-8775 Flux to Redux Examples (#438)
Workiva/over_react: doc/flux_to_redux.md

# Flux to Redux Transition Guide
> A document explaining the fundamentals of transitioning a Flux architecture to a Redux architecture.
---
* __[Goal](#goal)__
* __[Do I have to transition?](#do-i-have-to-transition-to-redux)__
* __[Influx Architecture](#influx-architecture)__
    * [Should You Use It](#should-you-implement-an-influx-architecture-during-the-transition?)
        * [Advantages](#advantages)
        * [Disadvantes](#disadvantages)
* __[Example](#example-explained)__
    * [Beginning Flux Architecture](#beginning-flux-architecture)
    * [Getting to Influx Architecture](#getting-to-influx-architecture)
        * [Influx Components](#influx-components)
        * [Influx Stores](#influx-stores)
        * [Example Specific Explanations](#example-specific-explanations)
    * [Getting to Redux Architecture](#getting-to-redux-architecture)
        * [Redux Stores](#redux-stores)
        * [Redux Components](#redux-components)

## Goal

> The goal of this document is explain major elements of transitioning to Flux from Redux. This includes the introduction of an Influx architecture (which means your state management system will be... in flux), a simple and advanced transition example, and specific steps to navigate the transition.

Reviewer: ![uhh-no](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/41018730/71044908-4203b300-20f0-11ea-9f31-2b9fd7c32c16.gif)
```suggestion
The goal of this document is explain major elements of transitioning from Flux to Redux. This includes the introduction of an Influx architecture (which means your state management system will be... in flux), a simple and advanced transition example, and specific steps to navigate the transition.
```

Author: This is actually a doc to get people _to_ Flux, Keal :trollface:

Reviewer: then you have a hell of alot MORE issue in other places, Joe :trollface:

Author: Ah shoot.. yeah, you're right. I guess I'll go and fix everything to go from redux _to_ flux..

Reviewer: lol im sitting here looking at all gregs feedback and the fact that the first sentence had that issue...
![see-but-dont-observe](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/41018730/71045149-264cdc80-20f1-11ea-9c12-54cccd8e3bb4.gif)
lulz jk @greglittlefield-wf i love you

Author: Hahahah this is why multiple reviewers are good

### Disadvantages
The biggest disadvantages are that it
- Takes extra time as there are ultimately two refactors instead of one (however minimal the second one will be). While ideally the second refactor (from Influx to Redux) should be an easy lift, it's still ultimately unnecessary.
- Does not provide any performance gains. The Redux `connected` components will update on every store update as long as Flux is in the mix. This mimics the behavior of Flux, but takes away the largest benefit of connecting to Redux.
- Can add increased complexity and code to a possibly already complex state architecture. There is additional boilerplate and utilities necessary to maintain an Influx architecture that are completely unnecessary to Redux, making Influx more verbose and a little more confusing.

In summary, it never makes sense to add steps and refactoring if you can afford not to. The primary advantage in Influx is that you can break up the project. If that may become important or is enticing, it is an option!

## Example Explained

> This section goes over the example in `/web/flux_to_redux/advanced/` and includes the goal of each phase and the steps to go from the last phase (starting with Flux) to the current phase.

Reviewer 2: I think it'd be helpful to also clarify that there's also a simpler example and link to it for users that have simpler use cases, so they don't have to read through all of this when they don't need to.

# Flux to Redux Transition Guide
> A document explaining the fundamentals of transitioning a Flux architecture to a Redux architecture.
>
> NOTE: Before attempting to transition, make sure you understand the content from the [OverReact Redux Documentation](./over_react_redux_documentation.md). This guide covers differences between Flux to Redux but does not try to comprehensively describe Redux.
---
* __[Goal](#goal)__
* __[Do I have to transition?](#do-i-have-to-transition-to-redux)__
* __[A Simple Example](#a-simple-example)__
    * [A Basic Flux App](#a-basic-flux-app)
    * [The Redux Version](#the-redux-version)
    * [Basic Example: The Main Differences](#basic-example:-the-main-differences)
    * [Basic Conversion Step by Step](#basic-conversion-step-by-step)
* __[An Advanced Example](#an-advanced-example)__
    * [An Advanced Flux App](#an-advanced-flux-app)
    * [Converted to Redux](#converted-to-redux)
    * [Advanced Conversion Step by Step](#advanced-conversion-step-by-step)
    * [What if the Advanced Conversion is too Daunting?](#what-if-the-advanced-conversion-is-too-daunting?)

> * __[Influx Architecture](#influx-architecture)__

Author: I definitely see your point, and I could go either way. Do you feel strongly? I lean towards keeping Influx because I feel like it is actually pretty descriptive to the situation of the code and isn't a lot to comprehend for the few that will need to worry about it.

To illustrate the basic changes that will occur, this section will go through a basic Flux architecture and then show that same system with Redux instead. This section will also have a step by step list of instructions for an update as straight forward as this one. An actual working example can be found in the [Flux to Redux Example](../web/flux_to_redux/simple/readme.md).

> NOTE: This section does not cover the complexities of having multiple stores, which presents more challenges than a single store. For a more complex example [see the advanced example below](#an-advanced-example).

### A Basic Flux App
For our example, here are our different items of interest:
- __The Flux Store Class:__ we have a Flux store called `RandomColorStore` that is responsible for diplaying a random background color. The only state field is `backgroundColor`. `RandomColorStore` also has a `_changeBackgroundColor` function, and when called it sets `backgroundColor` to a new random color. 
- __The Actions Class:__ There is an Actions class that has a single action: `RandomColorActions`. It only holds one action (`changeBackgroundColor`), which triggers `_changeBackgroundColor` in the store. 

> - __The Action Object:__ we create an object `randomColorActions` that is an intantiated instance of `RandomColorActions`.

Author: Good call!

> - __The Store Object:__ Our store, called `randomColorStore`, is instantiated with `randomColorActions` being passed in.

Author: Yep, I like it and see what you mean. I originally thought that if they wanted to see code, they could just hop over to the example to see it, but I agree in retrospect that having the isolated snippets as examples here makes it a lot more clear!

<img height=400 src="./ReduxArchitecture.png" alt='Redux Architecture'>

### Basic Example: The Main Differences
- __We replace the Flux store with both a state class and a reducer.__ In Redux, we do not define a class that is responsible for handling state updates. Rather, we create the model to represent the state and a function to describe updates. Then, use them in the instantiation of a Redux `Store` object.
- __Actions are not held in an overarching wrapper class.__ Typically in Redux, actions "stand alone" from each other. Our reducer should have cases for all the actions that exist, but unlike Flux there is no need to knit our store and actions together by actually providing an actions instance. Consequently, actions are broken away, pulled directly into the component, and triggered using `dispatch`.

> - __In Redux, actions and state are not passed directly as props from a parent component.__ In actuality, that statement is more nuanced and has some hidden complexity. On the surface though, Redux UI uses context and the `connect` function to associate state directly with props without needing to actively pass the store from parent to child all the way through a component tree. 

Author: Sounds good to me!

- __The actual update process can be easier to reason about in complex scenarios.__ Influx merges Flux and Redux to provide a "halfway" point that is a fairly straightforward transition both from Flux and to Redux. For those complex scenarios, it may seem daunting to transition straight to Redux, and Influx can lower the barrier. 

### Disadvantages
The biggest disadvantages are that it:
- __Takes extra time as there are ultimately two refactors instead of one (however minimal the second one will be).__ While ideally the second refactor (from Influx to Redux) should be an easy lift, it's still ultimately unnecessary.
- __Does not provide any performance gains until the transition is complete.__ The Redux `connected` components will update on every store update as long as Flux is in the mix. This mimics the behavior of Flux, but takes away the largest benefit of connecting to Redux.
- __Can add increased complexity and code to a possibly already complex state architecture.__ There is additional boilerplate and utilities necessary to maintain an Influx architecture that are completely unnecessary to Redux, making Influx more verbose and a little more confusing.

> In summary, it never makes sense to add steps and refactoring if you can afford not to. The primary advantage in Influx is that you can break up the project. If that may become important or is enticing, it is an option!

Author: Sounds good to me!

        * [Phase 3: Influx to Redux](#phase-3:-influx-to-redux)

## Goal
The goal of this document is explain major elements of transitioning from Flux to Redux. This includes explanation of both a simple and more advanced conversion, and the introduction of a new architecture as a last resort for the most extreme cases.

If, through this process, the document or examples miss any edge cases you encounter, please create an issue or reach out so it can be added.

## Do I have to transition to Redux?
No. OverReact Redux is meant to help to provide a recommended state management method for OverReact components, as well as provide benefits over w_flux and built_redux. Those benefits may provide enough reason to make a refactor worthwhile. If, after evaluating the benefits and effort, the juice doesn't seem worth the squeeze, then no need to worry about it!

To evaluate if the refactor is worth it, the details of OverReact Redux can be found in the [OverReact Redux doc](./over_react_redux_documentation.md). That document paired with this guide will illustrate the full scope of costs and benefits.

## A Simple Example

> To illustrate the basic changes that will occur, this section will go through a basic Flux architecture and then show that same system with Redux instead. This section will also have a step by step list of instructions for an update as straightforward as this one. An actual working example can be found in the [Flux to Redux Example](../web/flux_to_redux/simple/readme.md).

Author: This was originally what I wanted to do, but it seems like because that path doesn't have a specific endpoint, trying to use the link doesn't do anything. I actually created the readme just to add that endpoint so people could click on it. Should that path navigate me to the directory? I may be overlooking something

> To illustrate the basic changes that will occur, this section will go through a basic Flux architecture and then show that same system with Redux instead. This section will also have a step by step list of instructions for an update as straightforward as this one. An actual working example can be found in the [Flux to Redux Example](../web/flux_to_redux/simple/readme.md).

Reviewer 3: @joebingham-wk the link you've got now doesn't work at all (files on github are case sensitive).

Changing it to `../web/flux_to_redux/simple` navigates me correctly to https://github.com/Workiva/over_react/tree/0731dbb71e883a13670efb54297681d3e60230a1/web/flux_to_redux/simple

> To illustrate the basic changes that will occur, this section will go through a basic Flux architecture and then show that same system with Redux instead. This section will also have a step by step list of instructions for an update as straightforward as this one. An actual working example can be found in the [Flux to Redux Example](../web/flux_to_redux/simple/readme.md).

Author: Ohh that makes more sense, @aaronlademann-wf. I had always used the IDE markdown previewer to view markdown docs (and do my link testing), so I wasn't even thinking of Github 🤦‍♂ Thank you for pointing that out - I updated references to point to the simple / advanced directory instead of the readme files

      final Action<String> setBackgroundColor = Action();
    }
     
    // After
    class RandomizeBackgroundColorAction {}
    class SetBackgroundColorAction {
      final String backgroundColor;
      SetBackgroundColorAction(this.backgroundColor);
    }
    ```

    If your `Action` receives a custom class as typing for the action payload, that class could be a great starting point for the creation of your new Redux action.

    ```dart
    // Before
    class ExampleActions {
        final Action<SetBackgroundColorPayload> randomizeBackgroundColor = Action();
    }

    class SetBackgroundColorPayload {
        String backgroundColor;
        SetBackgroundColorAction(this.backgroundColor);
    }
    
    // After
    class SetBackgroundColorAction {
        final String backgroundColor;
        SetBackgroundColorAction(this.backgroundColor);
    }
    ```

1. __Pull state mutation logic out of the store and into a reducer.__ Typically within a Flux store you have a `triggerOnActionV2` call that identifies an action and a function used to respond to that action. In many cases, that same logic should be perfect for a reducer.
    ```dart

>     // Before transition

Reviewer 3: I think we should show the necessary imports for clarity as to what the `flux` namespace represents.

```suggestion
    import 'package:w_flux/w_flux.dart' as flux;

    // Before transition
```

        String get backgroundColor = _backgroundColor;

        // Constructor
        ExampleFluxStore(this._actions) {
            triggerOnActionV2(_actions.changeBackgroundColor, _changeBackgroundColor);
        }

        // Function to update the _backgroundColor state field
        _changeBackgroundColor(_) {
            _backgroundColor = '#' + (Random().nextDouble() * 16777215).floor().toRadixString(16);
        }
    }

    // After being transitioned to a reducer...
    ExampleState reducer(ExampleState oldState, dynamic /*or an action type*/ action) {
        // Assumes an action called ChangeBackgroundColor was created in step 1
        if (action is ChangeBackgroundColor) {
            final color = '#' + (Random().nextDouble() * 16777215).floor().toRadixString(16);
            return ExampleState.update(color: color);
        }

        return oldState;
    }
    ```
1. __Create the state model.__ After pulling out state mutation logic, this should be as simple as renaming the class, not inheriting from the Flux store class, and cleaning up anything unrelated to the actual state fields. 
1. __Instantiate the store class, using the state model and reducer.__

> 1. __Add a `ReduxProvider` around the component tree.__ This will take in the store instantiated in step 4 as the component's `store` prop.

Reviewer 3: Out of curiosity - why do none of these examples show any example code for the UI bits? (e.g. showing the actual wrapping of the component)

Author: All of the questions / points on adding UI examples are really good ones - my main reason was just that UI snippets were bulky and all of the code could be seen in the example. 

Adding the `ReduxProvider` wouldn't really be bulky though, so I added those examples!

For general "Refactoring UI Components", I just referred them to the examples in the web directory. I also added more comments in the Influx and Redux components to show what the refactor included. @aaronlademann-wf does that cover everything or do you think it'd be better in a markdown doc with the before and after examples together?

### An Adanced Flux App
- __The Flux Store Classes:__ `RandomColorStore`, `MidLevelStore`, `LowLevelStore`, and `AnotherColorStore`. `RandomCOlorStore`, `MidLevelStore`, and `LowLevelStore` are nested within each other while `AnotherColorStore` is completely separate.

    Despite there being four stores, all of them have the same job: handle a single random color property. Therefore, they are all nearly identical objects. Naturally in the real world they would likely be drastically different, but for simplicity sake and keeping the focus on the big picture they are all left the same.
- __The Store Objects:__ `bigStore` and `littleStore`
- __The Actions Class__, `RandomColorActions`
- __The Actions Object__, `randomColorActions`
- __The UI:__ The only complex component is a `BigBlock` component that receives `randomColorActions`, `bigStore`, and `littleStore` as props. Updates are triggered by using the action prop. Naturally now state is accessed via:
    - props.bigStore.state
    - props.bigStore.midLevelStore.state
    - props.bigStore.midLevelStore.lowLevelStore.state

>     - props.littlebig_Store.state

Reviewer 3: This seems like a typo

Author: Yep, good catch!

    Our `BigBlock` component renders three `SmallBlock` components. Each one connects to a different store's state, with the remaining background color being tied to `BigBlock` itself. 
    
    `BigBlock` also has four buttons - one connected to each action that changes the background color property of one of the stores (and thereby updating the component background color).

    A Flux specific part of the `BigBlock` component is that we need to set the `redrawOne` to listen to the story at every level.

```dart

> // A nested store

Reviewer 3: I think we should show the necessary imports for clarity as to what the `flux` namespace represents.

```suggestion
import 'package:w_flux/w_flux.dart' as flux;
    
// A nested store
```

    RandomColorActions _actions;
    // MidLevelStore looks nearly identical to `RandomColorStore`, but has a different
    // store object (`LowLevelStore`) nested within it.
    MidLevelStore midLevelStore = MidLevelStore(randomColorActions);

    /// Public data
    String _backgroundColor = 'gray';
    String get backgroundColor => _backgroundColor;

    RandomColorStore(this._actions) {
        triggerOnActionV2(_actions.changeMainBackgroundColor, _changeBackgroundColor);
    }

    _changeBackgroundColor(String _) {
        _backgroundColor = '#' + (Random().nextDouble() * 16777215).floor().toRadixString(16);
    }
}

// A seperate store, making the total store count be equal to 4
class AnotherColorStore extends flux.Store {
    RandomColorActions _actions;

    /// Public data
    String _backgroundColor = 'Blue';
    String get backgroundColor => _backgroundColor;

    AnotherColorStore(this._actions) {
        triggerOnActionV2(_actions.changeBlockThreeBackgroundColor, _changeBackgroundColor);
    }

    _changeBackgroundColor(String _) {
        _backgroundColor = '#' + (Random().nextDouble() * 16777215).floor().toRadixString(16);
    }
}
```

```dart

> // A shared action class for all the stores, with an action to update each background color

Reviewer 3: I think we should show the necessary imports for clarity as to what the `flux` namespace represents.

```suggestion
import 'package:w_flux/w_flux.dart' as flux;
    
// A shared action class for all the stores, with an action to update each background color
```

// ways this could be done given that all the actions are pretty much the same,
// but the reducer was written more verbosely to capture the core idea.
ReduxState afterTransitionReducer(ReduxState oldState, dynamic action) {
  if (action is UpdateBackgroundColorAction) {
    var color = '#' + (Random().nextDouble() * 16777215).floor().toRadixString(16);

    return ReduxState.update(oldState, mainBackgroundColor: color);
  } else if (action is UpdateBlockOneBackgroundColorAction) {
    var color = '#' + (Random().nextDouble() * 16777215).floor().toRadixString(16);

    return ReduxState.update(oldState, blockOneBackgroundColor: color);
  } else if (action is UpdateBlockTwoBackgroundColorAction) {
    var color = '#' + (Random().nextDouble() * 16777215).floor().toRadixString(16);

    return ReduxState.update(oldState, blockTwoBackgroundColor: color);
  } else if (action is UpdateBlockThreeBackgroundColorAction) {
    var color = '#' + (Random().nextDouble() * 16777215).floor().toRadixString(16);

    return ReduxState.update(oldState, blockThreeBackgroundColor: color);
  }

  return oldState;
}
```

```dart

> // Instantiate a store using the reducer and state class

Reviewer 3: I think we should show the necessary imports for clarity as to what the `redux` namespace represents.

```suggestion
import 'package:redux/redux.dart' as redux;
    
// Instantiate a store using the reducer and state class
```

1. __For each group, refactor all the stores.__ By doing the stores and reducers at the same time, you can completely invalidate a single store at a time. In other words, you can move all the necessary state logic into the new state class and move the state mutation logic into the reducer. Then, the entire Flux store can be deleted.

    If you have already created a state class and a reducer for an earlier store group, continue adding to the same reducer and state class. Worth noting is that these app examples use a very simplistic reducer approach, and understanding the options with reducers may be worthwhile. Because there are multiple ways to implement reducers, it is likely one will make more sense than others.
1. __Create any new action classes that are necessary.__ After refactoring a Flux store, it should be clear which actions need to be converted to Redux actions.

> 1. __Refactor components into connected components.__ Update the component to `UiComponent2`, removing all Flux boilerplate, and wrapping the already declared factory with the `connect` call.

Reviewer 3: Again - it seems odd that the UI portion of these refactors lacks any code examples of any kind...

1. __Move on to the next group.__ If the refactor has multiple groups of stores and components, move on to the next one.
1. __Add a `ReduxProvider` around the component tree.__ Once it makes sense, wrap the tree in the `ReduxProvider` component.

### What if the Advanced Conversion is too Daunting?
The advanced conversion might sound like a huge initiative with numerous unknowns and complexities. If that's the case the first question is whether Redux will offer the benefits to justify a large initiative. Our [OverReact Redux documentation](./over_react_redux_documentation.md) includes some of the benefits, and there are many [articles online](https://www.google.com/search?q=the+benefits+of+redux&oq=the+benefits+of+redux) that provide more examples. 

If Redux makes sense but the conversion project seems extremely challenging, we have a middleground: introducing __Influx__.

## Influx Architecture
### What is Influx?

> Influx is just the term we're giving to an architecture that is both Redux and Flux at the same time. To aid in the transition from Flux to Redux, tools have been built to allow Flux and Connected (Redux) components to all talk to the same store. It's a transitional architecture that allows the library to be non-commital to the state management system, ultimately allowing the transition from Flux to Redux to be a much more incremental process.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Influx is just the term we're giving to an architecture that is both Redux and Flux at the same time. To aid in the transition from Flux to Redux, we have built some utilities to allow Flux and Connected (Redux) components to all talk to the same store. It's a transitional architecture that allows the library to be non-commital to the state management system, ultimately allowing the transition from Flux to Redux to be a much more incremental process.
```

### Should you implement an Influx architecture during the transition?
__tl;dr__

__If you assess your architecture and are confident you can go straight from Flux to Redux, you should not use Influx. If you are not confident, you should consider it.__

The Influx architecture is not a required part of the process, and may make your life more difficult by adding extra steps. There are both advantages and disadvantages, and assessing how large the refactor is will likely provide the largest indication of whether or not it makes sense.

### Advantages
- __You can split the effort into very tangible subtasks.__ Stores can be updated to Redux without necessarily updating the Flux components. Components reliant on multiple stores can talk to Flux stores and Redux stores at the same time. Ultimately, this means a library can pick and choose the areas that can be updated and do them one at a time.

> - __Inability to update entirely to `Component2` is not a blocker.__ Since `connected` components need to be `Component2`, the Redux refactor may be blocked by those efforts. This option allows the library to update the state system to a Redux friendly architecture while updating components to `UiComponent2` and `connect` at the same time.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- __Inability to update entirely to `Component2` is not a blocker.__ Since `connected` components need to be `Component2`, the Redux refactor may be blocked by those efforts. This option allows the library to update the state system to a Redux friendly architecture while [updating components to `UiComponent2`](./ui_component2_transition.md) and `connect` at the same time.
```

### Disadvantages
- __Takes extra time as there are ultimately two refactors instead of one (however minimal the second one will be).__ While ideally the second refactor (from Influx to Redux) should be an easy lift, the middle steps still add effort that could otherwise be avoided.
- __Does not provide any performance gains until the transition is complete.__ The Redux `connected` components will update on every store update as long as Flux is in the mix. This mimics the behavior of Flux, but takes away the largest benefit of connecting to Redux.
- __Can add complexity and code to a possibly already complex state architecture.__ There are additional boilerplate and utilities necessary to maintain an Influx architecture that are completely unnecessary to Redux, making Influx more verbose and a little more confusing.

In summary, Influx adds steps to the transition process, but can make the work easier to break up.

### Important Terms
If this architecture is appealing, there are a few new classes and utilities it will be beneficial to be aware of.
- __Adapted Influx Store:__ The instance returned from wrapping an Influx store with a `FluxToReduxAdapterStore`.

> - __`composeHocs`:__ If a component takes in multiple stores, it needs to be connected to all of them. This function that allows you to combine multiple `connect` or `connectFlux` calls using a flat list, as opposed to nesting them inside each other.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- __`composeHocs`:__ If a component takes in multiple stores, it needs to be connected to all of them. This function allows you to combine multiple `connect` or `connectFlux` calls using a flat list, as opposed to nesting them inside each other.
```

> - __`connectFlux`:__ Like [`connect`](https://github.com/Workiva/over_react/blob/master/doc/over_react_redux_documentation.md#connect), but for Flux stores instead of Redux stores. This is useful because it is one step closer to a Redux connected component without being Redux. If, for any reason, implementing the Redux side of Influx is presenting challenges, `connectFlux` provides a good middle ground.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- __`connectFlux`:__ Like [`connect`](./over_react_redux_documentation.md#connect), but for Flux stores instead of Redux stores. This is useful because it is one step closer to a Redux connected component without being Redux. If, for any reason, implementing the Redux side of Influx is presenting challenges, `connectFlux` provides a good middle ground.
```

> - __`FluxToReduxAdapterStore`:__ This is a class that wraps an Influx store and makes it look like a Redux store. It is the cornerstone of Influx because pure Flux components will stay connected to the original store instance, but Redux components and connected Flux components (using `connectFlux`) will connect to the instatiated `FluxToReduxAdapaterStore` object. This works by passing in an Influx store instance and a Flux actions instance.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- __`FluxToReduxAdapterStore`:__ This is a class that wraps an Influx store and makes it look like a Redux store. It is the cornerstone of Influx because pure Flux components will stay connected to the original store instance, but Redux components and connected Flux components (using `connectFlux`) will connect to the instatiated `FluxToReduxAdapaterStore` object. This works by passing in an Influx store instance and a Flux `Actions` instance.
```

- __Influx store:__ A Flux store that has implemented the `InfluxStoreMixin` and converted its internal logic (constructor, getters, overrides) to match the Influx pattern.

> - __`InfluxStoreMixin`:__ A mixin that attaches to a Flux store in order to add necessary Influx utilities. Namely, the method `influxReducer` must be accessible on the Flux store class, and `influxReducer` expects the class to have a `reduxReducer` method and a `state` field. The `state` field is essentially a proxy for a Redux state class, and makes it so that state class can be built slowly over time without any need to refactor it again.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- __`InfluxStoreMixin`:__ A mixin that attaches to a Flux store in order to add necessary Influx utilities. Namely, the method `influxReducer` must be accessible on the Flux `Store` class, and `influxReducer` expects the class to have a `reduxReducer` method and a `state` field. The `state` field is essentially a proxy for a Redux state class, and makes it so that state class can be built slowly over time without any need to refactor it again.
```

        1. __Refactor actions passed into `triggerOnActionV2`.__ Like a Flux store, the Influx store will watch for Flux actions to be triggered. Instead of triggering a function that mutates the inner state however, a callback should pass a corresponding Redux action instance into `this.influxReducer`.
        1. __Override the `reduxReducer` getter on the class.__ The `reduxReducer` getter should point to the Redux reducer function created earlier.
        1. __Update the store fields.__ The end result of this step is that the Influx store (previously the Flux store) should have a getter for every Redux state class field. The getters should point to corresponding values on the `state` field. 
        
        Updating getters isn't necessary as the correct fields should be accessible via `influxStoreInstance.state.reduxProperty`, but refactoring the getters means that any Flux components pointing to this store do not need to be refactored. If it is preferable just to remove getters in favor of accessing the `state` fields directly, any original getters or fields that correspond to a value moved to the Redux state class should be removed.

        ```dart

>         // An Influx Store

Reviewer 3: I think we should show the necessary imports for clarity as to what the `flux` namespace represents, and where they can access stuff like `InfluxStoreMixin`.

```suggestion
        import 'package:over_react/over_react_redux.dart';
        import 'package:w_flux/w_flux.dart' as flux;

        // An Influx Store
```

            @override
            get reduxReducer => lowLevelReduxReducer;

            /// Use getters to point to state properties.
            String get backgroundColor => state.backgroundColor;

            ExampleInfluxStore(this._actions) {
                state = ReduxStateClass.defaultState();
                triggerOnActionV2(_actions.exampleFluxAction, 
                    (_) => this.influxReducer(ExampleReduxAction()));
            }
        }

        class ExampleReduxAction {}

        class ExampleFluxActions {
            final flux.Action<String> exampleFluxAction = flux.Action();
        }
        ```
1. __Add adapter stores where necessary.__ Each store that will be Influx should be wrapped with a `FluxToReduxAdapterStore` to give Flux and Connected Flux access as well. In other words, if the store was updated to Redux directly or will only talk to Redux components, this step can be skipped.
    
    `FluxToReduxAdapterStore` takes in an Influx store and an actions instance. It should also receive the Influx store class and the Redux state class as generics.
    ``` dart
    FluxToReduxAdapterStore influxAdapterStore =

>         FluxToReduxAdapterStore<ExampleInfluxStore, ReduxStateClass>(exampleInfluxStoreInstance, exampleFluxActionsInstance);

Reviewer 3: ```dart
final influxAdapterStore = FluxToReduxAdapterStore<ExampleInfluxStore, ReduxStateClass>(
    exampleInfluxStoreInstance, exampleFluxActionsInstance);
```

    ```
1. __Create `Context` instances for the necessary stores.__ If a component will use multiple stores, a `Context` instance is required. The [OverReact Redux docs](./over_react_redux_documentation.md) have examples of having multiple stores, which describes the fundamentals of why this is necessary. In the end, it is most likely that the majority of `FluxToReduxAdapterStore` instances will need a `Context` instance. 
1. __Wrap the component tree in a either a `ReduxProvider` or a `ReduxMultiProvider`.__ If there are multiple stores, a `ReduxMultiProvider` is more elegant and is encouraged. The store instances passed in should be the `FluxToReduxAdapterStore` instances, not the normal Flux store instances.

> 1. __Refactor components.__ See the specific component type below for a reminder on which store instance is correct and any "gotchas" in the refactor. In general, remember that if a component talks to multiple stores, `composeHocs` can be used to simplify the connected factory declarations.

Reviewer 3: I think we need at least a couple of examples of a flux component being converted to a redux one.

Reviewer 3: I'll leave it up to you whether that gets put in its own dedicated section - and then just linked to from all the different places where we mention doing things like wrapping a component in a provider, etc. - or whether you add relevant examples in each place where mentioned.

### The Redux Version
For our example, here are our different items of interest:
- __The State Class__, `ReduxState`
- __Actions__, a single action class called `UpdateBackgroundColorAction`
- __The Reducer__, `randomColorReducer`
- __The Store Object__, `randomColorStore`
- __The UI:__ All of our UI componentry is wrapped in a `ReduxProvider`. The provider takes in a `store` prop, to which we pass `randomColorStore`. The only component is a `BigBlock` connected component. Updates are triggered by calling `props.dispatch(UpdateBackgroundColorAction())`, and since it's a connected component (using [`mapStateToProps`](./over_react_redux_documentation.md#mapstatetoprops)) state is accessed via normal props usage.

```dart
// A regular Dart class that represents the application data model
class RandomColorState {
    // The state values the app needs
    String backgroundColor;

    // A constructor used to establish the default state
    RandomColorState.defaultState() : this.backgroundColor = 'gray';

    // A convenience constructor used by the reducer to return new instances of the class
    RandomColorState.update(RandomColorState oldState, {String backgroundColor})

>         : this.backgroundColor = backgroundColor ?? oldState.backgroundColor;

Reviewer 4: why isn't this just something like:
```
RandomColorState.withColor(String backgroundColor) : this.backgroundColor = backgroundColor;
```

I understand that if the internal logic somehow depended on the oldState, you'd want to include that, but this doesn't use it.

Author: Good point. I was leaning on using the standard way of doing things even when stuff was verbose / unused so readers would consistently see the same patterns, but I believe you're correct that it makes more sense to have the example be practical

}
```

```dart
// The only action for our application
class UpdateBackgroundColorAction {}
```

```dart
// A simple reducer that has a case for every action (in this case, a single one)
RandomColorState reducer(RandomColorState oldState, dynamic action) {
  if (action is UpdateBackgroundColorAction) {
    var color = '#' + (Random().nextDouble() * 16777215).floor().toRadixString(16);

    // Return a new state class instance, changing the background color

>     return RandomColorState.update(oldState, backgroundColor: color);

Reviewer 4: why isn't this just something like:
```
return RandomColorState.withColor(color);
```

- __The Store Objects:__ `bigStore` and `littleStore`
- __The Actions Class__, `RandomColorActions`
- __The Actions Object__, `randomColorActions`
- __The UI:__ The only complex component is a `BigBlock` component that receives `randomColorActions`, `bigStore`, and `littleStore` as props. Updates are triggered by using the action prop. Naturally now state is accessed via:
    - props.bigStore.state
    - props.bigStore.midLevelStore.state
    - props.bigStore.midLevelStore.lowLevelStore.state
    - props.littleStore.state

    Our `BigBlock` component renders three `SmallBlock` components. Each one connects to a different store's state, with the remaining background color being tied to `BigBlock` itself. 
    
    `BigBlock` also has four buttons - one connected to each action that changes the background color property of one of the stores (and thereby updating the component background color).

>     A Flux specific part of the `BigBlock` component is that we need to set the `redrawOne` to listen to the story at every level.

Reviewer 4: `redrawOne` -> `redrawOn`
`story` -> `store`

- __The Store Object:__ same as the simple example.
- __The UI:__ like the simple example, our component tree is wrapped in a `ReduxProvider`. Otherwise the component architecture is the same as the Flux version, minus the Flux-y parts. We have a connected `UiComponent2` called `BigBlock` that maps the store state to props, which passes the props to its three `LittleBlock`s, with four buttons to trigger the background actions. Naturally all the Flux parts were removed, including the `redrawOn` override.

```dart
// A regular Dart class that represents the application data model
class ReduxState {
    // All of the state fields for the application
    String mainBackgroundColor;
    String blockOneBackgroundColor;
    String blockTwoBackgroundColor;
    String blockThreeBackgroundColor;

    // A constructor for creating the default app state
    ReduxState.defaultState()
        : this.mainBackgroundColor = 'gray',
        this.blockOneBackgroundColor = 'red',
        this.blockTwoBackgroundColor = 'orange',
        this.blockThreeBackgroundColor = 'blue';

    // A convenience constructor for creating new instances of the state class

>     ReduxState.update(ReduxState oldState,

Reviewer 4: the `oldState` fallback here makes perfect sense for a multivariate store

        {mainBackgroundColor, blockOneBackgroundColor, blockTwoBackgroundColor,         blockThreeBackgroundColor})
        : this.mainBackgroundColor = mainBackgroundColor ?? oldState.mainBackgroundColor,
        this.blockOneBackgroundColor = blockOneBackgroundColor ?? oldState.blockOneBackgroundColor,
        this.blockTwoBackgroundColor = blockTwoBackgroundColor ?? oldState.blockTwoBackgroundColor,
        this.blockThreeBackgroundColor = blockThreeBackgroundColor ?? oldState.blockThreeBackgroundColor;
}
```

```dart
// An action for updating each state property
class UpdateBackgroundColorAction {}

class UpdateBlockOneBackgroundColorAction {}

class UpdateBlockTwoBackgroundColorAction {}

class UpdateBlockThreeBackgroundColorAction {}
```

```dart
// A simple reducer that has a case for every action.
// Because the example is relatively contrived to keep things simple, there are other

> // ways this could be done given that all the actions are pretty much the same,

Reviewer 4: if it's easy, you could include both this as the verbose option and an equivalent shortened version

Reviewer 4: actually if you're just talking about bubbling the `var color` line outside of the if statements or breaking it out into a separate utility method (my preference), I don't think it's any harder to grok with that change so you could probably stick with the short version

Author: I was actually thinking that the actions and reducer together could be refactored to really only require one action - just an `UpdateColorAction` that takes in all the colors, including one that's changed, and passes them all in to the `update` constructor. That was really unclear though, so I updated the wording to be a little more specific as to what 'simplified' meant.

I had thought about breaking color generation into a different method though, and was just on the fence originally. So I updated that as well!

1. __Refactor relevant stores to be flat.__ State should be lifted up or broken out into their own instances so that stores are not nested. Redux holds firmly that an application should have only one store. However, while refactoring to a single store Redux architecture, Influx can have multiple stores. The rule is that stores cannot be nested.
1. __Decide which stores will be Redux and which stores will be Influx.__ An Influx implementation can have both Redux stores and Influx stores. The rules are:
    - A Redux component can talk to both a Redux store and an adapted Influx store at the same time.
    - A Flux component can talk to an Influx store and a Flux store at the same time.
    - A `connectFlux` component can talk to an adapted Influx store.

    The result of these rules is that a store can be converted directly to Redux [iff](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/If_and_only_if) it will be used exclusively by Redux components, but a component can be converted to a Redux component if it will pull data from either an adapted Influx store or a traditional Flux store.

>     If the stores are not overly complex and all of the related UI can be updated to Redux connected components (extending from `UiComponent2`), then going straight to Redux may be a good option.

Reviewer 4: some of the verbage around which piece to convert when and how to decide reads as a bit circuitous - could some of the prose be eliminated by using a simple flowchart / decision tree?

Author: Yep, good call! I added that and reworded it a little bit

    For code examples on what this could look like, compare the different components in the [advanced web example](../web/flux_to_redux/advanced).
    - __A Flux component__ will operate exactly the same way. 
        - Pass in the Influx store instance as a prop (which should already be done). Not the `FluxToReduxAdapterStore` instance, but _the same Influx store instance_ used to istantiate the `FluxToReduxAdapterStore` object. 
        - The actions prop should also be _the same action class instance_ passed into the `FluxToReduxAdapterStore` constructor. 
    - __A Redux component__ will use the `connect` function. 
        - The `pure` parameter on `connect` should be set to `false`, or else it will not receive regular updates. 
        - If the component tree was wrapped in a `ReduxMultiProvider`, the `context` parameter should also be set to the relevant store context.
    - __A Connected Flux component__ is essentially the same as a Redux component.

>         - The only exception is thate `mapDispatchToProps` (Redux `connect` parameter) is `mapActionsToProps` for a Connected Flux component.

Reviewer 4: `thate` -> `that`

To evaluate if the refactor is worth it, the details of OverReact Redux can be found in the [OverReact Redux documentation](./over_react_redux_documentation.md). That document paired with this guide will illustrate the full scope of costs and benefits.

## A Simple Example

> To illustrate the basic changes that will occur, this section will go through a basic Flux architecture and then show that same system with Redux instead. This section will also have a step by step list of instructions for an update as straightforward as this one. An actual working example can be found in the [Flux to Redux Example](../web/flux_to_redux/simple).

Author: This change was actually a topic of conversation:
https://github.com/Workiva/over_react/pull/438#discussion_r369290885

Author: I'm happy to go either way, just FYI! :)
